Were you hoping this pandemic would be over by now?
I think we all were.
In some places, the number of new cases is low.
But in other parts of the world, highly contagious variants
are spreading and the pandemic is raging like never before.
It's a sobering reminder that this pandemic is not over.
We weep with those who weep.
And we pray especially for our brothers and sisters
in Latin America and Africa,
where there's been quite an increase of cases in recent weeks.
In other parts of the world,
vaccinations have slowed the spread of the virus.
We're doing what we can to help
to help Bethelites and other special full-time servants
get vaccinated if they want to be.
We're happy to report that about 50% of the worldwide
Bethel family have been vaccinated so far.
Here in the United States, more than 98% of our Bethel family
have chosen to get vaccinated.
New York state regulations now allow vaccinated persons
to engage in a greater number of activities.
In harmony with those government regulations,
we've been able to resume some of our activities within Bethel.
The family was delighted that government regulations
allowed those who are vaccinated to assemble.
That means we could come together for meals in our dining rooms
and for Bethel family watch-star study.
We're all glad to be back together here again.
What a happy day that was to assemble again
for the watch-star study.
Of course, the decision to be vaccinated is a personal one.
What factors might a Christian consider
in making the decision?
Number one, as Jehovah's Witnesses,
we do not have a religious objection
to vaccination.
Number two, we're in the midst of a pandemic
as of July 9 over 19,000 of our dear brothers and sisters
have died from the virus.
Number three, in some lands,
the superior authorities have made laws requiring all
of their citizens to be vaccinated.
In other lands, the superior authorities have not made laws
but they are strongly encouraging their citizens
to be vaccinated.
We each must weigh such factors when making
our own personal decision.
Continue to take reasonable precautions
in accord with local conditions,
especially if you have health problems
or you're up in years.
Stay in touch with direction coming
from the local health authorities
and be careful.
In this update, I'd like to talk with all of you older ones.
I'm an older person myself.
I'm going to turn 87 before too long.
When I was 20 or 30 years old,
I had no idea I'd still be around at 87.
Many of you probably feel the same way.
But here we are now.
And just like Ecclesiastes chapter 12 says,
the days of distress have come.
Our bodies are slowing down.
We've lost the youth we used to have.
We can't see or hear too well.
We've got all kinds of health problems.
And during the pandemic,
we've had to stay shut up in our little old homes
for a lot longer than we thought we would.
And it may be that one or two of us
have felt that God has just thrown us away.
That he's just not interested in old people
after our youth is gone.
We know he's going to take care of us.
We're going to get everlasting life.
But right now,
we feel like we're kind of on our own.
But I'd like to remind you of something found in the Bible.
You know at one time, most likely,
David thought that Jehovah had left him.
That's the reason why he said what is recorded
at Psalm 71 verse 9.
Do not cast me off in my old age.
Do not abandon me when my strength fails.
But we know that Jesus mentioned David in his teaching
because hundreds of years later,
after David's death,
Christ talked about David.
So Jehovah didn't throw him away.
That's for sure.
And he's going to remember David even more in the resurrection.
And he hasn't really thrown any of us away either.
Even though we may feel that he has at times.
How do you know that?
How do you personally know
that Jehovah has not thrown you away?
Well, let's think about it.
How many of you know how old Mathusa was when he died?
You probably learned that a long time ago.
You know the answer.
He was really old.
The oldest one mentioned among imperfect humans in the Bible.
How many of you know how old Noah was
when he started to build the ark?
He was well over 500 years old.
That shows us that God remembers us when we're old.
The Christian Greek scriptures also tell us
about the prophet of Santa who was 84 years old.
How do we know she was 84 years old?
It's in the inspired scriptures.
If Jehovah didn't want us to know her age,
he wouldn't have put it in their hoodie.
Now, doesn't that tell us something?
Jehovah keeps track of age.
And he's interested in us older ones.
Psalm 90 comes right out and says
that imperfect men live to be maybe 70 or 80 years old.
And even then, those years are filled with trouble.
So Jehovah put all that in there for us to know
that he has not thrown us away,
that he remembers us.
We're so proud of you.
You have learned to use Zoom and mute and unmute yourself.
I'm still learning to use Zoom.
You've tackled telephone witnessing and letter writing.
It's amazing to see how fast you did it.
Clearly, Jehovah has been with you and has strengthened you.
That's what he promises at Psalm 29, 11.
Jehovah will give strength to his people.
Jehovah will bless his people with peace.
Through his whole pandemic,
we've seen evidence that Jehovah has continued to give us strength
and bless us with peace.
That's why nothing has stopped the kingdom work from moving forward.
A good example of that is our theocratic construction.
You may be wondering how the pandemic has affected
that the worldwide construction work.
Not to mention all the work normally done to maintain our kingdom halls.
Did everything just stop?
Well, when the pandemic first hit,
we did suspend most new construction and renovation
so that the construction servants and volunteers could shelter in place.
Our first concern was the safety of the thousands of volunteers
working full-time with local design construction.
Of course, many of those brothers and sisters serve far
from their families and friends,
so shelter in place hasn't been easy.
What has helped them to cope with the loneliness and isolation?
Listen to their comments in the following video.
The brothers organized frequent shepherding visits by video conference.
During these visits, they asked me how I was doing physically, emotionally and spiritually.
I appreciate so very much that they were thinking about me
and they chose specific Bible texts to share with me.
During the pandemic, I was assigned a field service group to oversee
and this gave me more opportunities to assist new publishers
in maintaining good personal Bible study habits
and also train brothers to reach out for more responsibilities.
I'm not able to visit my family in Europe,
but I often call them and I share encouraging thoughts with them.
I also like helping young ones in the ministry.
It is not easy for them to preach during this pandemic,
but preaching together boosts all of us.
And by giving, I felt Jehovah's blessings.
For example, brothers and sisters have been checking upon my husband and I
and have been an emotional support during this lockdown.
Without them knowing their texts, calls and other caring deeds
have made things easier for us.
Did you notice what helped them maintain a positive outlook?
Encouraging shepherding visits and the staying busy
with spiritual activities.
So even though they couldn't work as much on branch projects
or build kingdom halls, they could build up their spirituality
and encourage others, and that's exactly what they did.
Now, we said earlier that most construction had to stop for a while
because of the virus.
But did that mean everything stopped?
Not at all.
We were able to keep making progress on a number of branch projects.
One example is the new branch property in Argentina.
The project faced many delays because of the pandemic,
but with Jehovah's help, our brothers were able to work through
them with the assistance of contractors.
And now the Bethel family has started to move in,
taking strict precautions against COVID-19.
They all finish moving in to the new facility in the weeks to come.
But how have our other design and construction teams kept the work moving?
Let's hear from a few of them.
The worldwide design construction training desk recognized the opportunity
to sharpen the awareness of safety among all who participate
in theocratic construction and maintenance projects.
So because of this, a safety training course for overseas was rolled out globally.
About 7,500 responsible brothers benefited from this via video conference.
Brother from Belgium said, I now recognize that safety is an extension to my spirituality.
Here in Africa, the pandemic has emphasized the need to better prepare our
kingdom halls in health and hygiene for our brothers and sisters.
Solution such as hand washing stations, limiting physical touch points,
and other hygiene-related needs are being addressed.
The local design construction departments are also busy planning for future projects
and do any sensual kingdom hall maintenance and repairs.
And in areas where conditions have allowed it, some branches have even been able
to start new projects with a limited number of construction servants.
Our thanks go out to all of you construction volunteers who keep giving generously
of yourselves as you work hard on projects and care for your local kingdom halls.
So what does all of this show us?
Jehovah's chariot has not stopped, and all of us, old and young,
want to keep pace with it.
As we face the days ahead, we'll continue to take a cautious approach
that shows respect for life and keeps the kingdom work going.
We don't know exactly when this pandemic will end, but we know this.
Jehovah will continue to provide the guidance we need to get through it.
We want you to know that we love you and pray for Jehovah's blessing on all you do to serve him faithfully.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.